Hello again in this video really cool.
We're gonna be creating a cinematic sequence where I'm just pushing play.
We can go from camera to camera follow the guards as they walk around and use a dolly track to swing
around a guy at the end and then back to the player.
Let's jump in and get started okay.
Let's start with a little bit of structure I'm gonna go into my game folder right click and create a
new folder which I will call cinematics for all things cinematic related.
Also within my hierarchy and a right click Create empty and I will call this likewise cameras or cinematics.
I call this cinematics as well cinematics just reset and transforms us right in the middle.
Okay.
So we have our cinematics game objective and cinematics folder.
Next I'm going to click on my follow camera and just change the priority here to 100.
That should mean that when we're playing the game this camera has the highest priority over everything
else.
Now if we had cameras that we wanted to dynamically switch between and have the snow machine brain figure
out should it be this one or should it be that one then you can use the priority system to give a waiting
to that sort of camera.
But for now this is just a way of me saying this when I click the play button I really want to make
sure that this is the camera that is going to be used.
The follow camera that is now next I'm going to figure out where I want to have some virtual cameras
during my cut scene or my cinematic moments I'm running in I'm triggering the moment here.
I want to show a couple of things I probably want to show.
Let's see this God this God in the middle I think and I want to show this god over in the side and probably
some sort of interesting reveal of the final guy that would have the he's how to exit the scene right
next to him will exit the moment.
Okay.
So I'm going to hop over here near this guy create myself a new snow machine create virtual camera will
drop that into the same if we double click on it where have you put that camera.
Just give it a wiggle around and rename this I'll leave the C.M. because that's the convention that
snow machine puts in there I'm going to rename it to reveal one that's the reveal camera one.
And if I click on the solo button here I can see in the game window where it's currently pointing not
in the best spot that allows me to move it around a little bit find where this god is had a little bit
of a think about how close I want it to be to this God and he's going to be wandering around doing his
patrol which is cool so I'm going to puppet just here and in terms of what I want it to be doing I want
it to be looking at this guy here.
So what.
Who is this guy.
He is enemy number two.
So I'll click him I see him reveal camera find my look at the selector and enemy number two.
Now again if I click solo I can see it is locked to that guy there which is awesome and if I click on
play while I've selected solo then we can see I have to click solo again in play you can see it's going
to follow him around he's kind of dawdling around that's what my shot is going to look like in game.
Next up we will show this guard over here now what you can do is blend from camera to camera so don't
want do I want to do that do I want to blend from this one it might be a little bit wonky but I'll show
you this from a functionality point of view on a blend from that camera to a camera which would be stationed
just here so pop into the world add myself a senior machine create virtual camera and rename this to
see em reveal to and we'll figure out which guard this one is it's number four.
So I will you know it is drag enemy for into the.
Look at on my reveal too.
And again quick solo here it's pointed.
It's pointed way underground.
So just shuffle it ran a little bit moved down here probably a longer shot off in the distance through
the trees something a little bit dramatic popping around the side of the house.
This is a love scene a machine so once you become a movie directed at you you can have the whole we
can see him around the corner if you wanna have that peeking around the corner feel you can have it
right up close and personal if you want to be getting a little bit of his personality in there.
For now I'm just gonna make it a little bit simple.
What I said was I'm going to have it come around the side here.
So yeah.
Okay.
We'll see how that feels nice and low to the ground.
There we go.
So we have two cameras that's enough for me to show you the next part of this process.
I'm just gonna grab my two cameras and drop them underneath the cinematics game objects so I can open
and close them nice and easily the next thing we're going to do is to create an animation or a sequence
using these cameras.
So gonna head up to window sequencing and timeline.
I'm going to drag for me the timeline down here next to my animation windows and you can see it's empty
at the moment it's asking us to click to create a direct component.
Now first of all what I want to do is create a game object.
So underneath cinematics right click Create empty and I will name this.
Our intro sequence just to be clear that this is the cinematic which is happening when we first run
into our level we can have a ton of these if we want but this is just our intro sequence and within
our intro sequence while clicked on that.
Now when I click Create it's gonna allow us to create a playable director on a save this in my cinematics
folder that we created earlier intro sequence timeline that looks good.
And now we have a sequence in our timeline timeline is just like when we're using our animation system.
It has a sequence things that starts from zero and goes for a certain amount of time or a set amount
of frames.
Now what do I want to be sequencing.
I might be using the word sequencing and animating into dependency here.
For me I kind of mentally think of it as on animating stuff but technically we're sequencing it.
I'm going to grab my first camera drag it down over to the right hand side in this gray area.
This pain Ed clip with snow machine track it's placed my camera onto the sequence so it's placed a track
that has that particular camera but we don't have a scene a machine brain at the moments on a click
my selector.
We only have one scene a machine brain which is on the camera double click on that.
Now we know what's controlling it so now we are able to see.
So we need that brain to be at it.
Do our to actually show this clip.
So I can pop that down to the front.
Reduce the time a little bit.
Next up I'm going to grab my other reveal camera.
So while still clicked on intro sequence I'm going to grab and drag real camera to put it on the track.
Just drag it to make a little bit shorter as well.
Now when I drag it over the top of the first one you can see that it's creating this line here which
is a blend between the two.
Which allows us to as I was mentioning before we can go from the first camera.
And then I can transition into the second camera which I think is really awesome as time.
Number five I've said that this is awesome.
Now if I click on play pop it's going to go from one camera to the other.
If I want to see how this looks with the guys walking around I'm going to have to click on play and
while clicked on play I can then have my sequence playing and you can see a little bit of that is showing
these two gods.
So first one.
And second one.
Now if I want to add even more flair to my blending what I can do is just give myself a little bit of
space grab the following camera drag that onto the track as well it's going to put it at the back just
tidied up so it's nice and small drag that to the very front of my cinematic moment and then you can
see we're gonna have a blend from the player into my first camera.
That's a little bit too quickly of a blend click of a blend of scrolling in a little bit you can grab
the handle between the two and make that a longer transition.
So then we run run run run run with our follow camera and then it will swoop quickly go over to this
other camera do what it needs to do quickly go to that other camera and then if and when we want to
return back to the player we can snap back to the player or we could do another blend transition to
that camera.
Some pretty happy with that.
We've got one more thing I'd like to do in here and that is create a camera that circles round this
big bad dude at the end.
That kind of effort to simulate this kind of does a bit of a.
Here he is and then looks back into town to kind of show what he is saying now the way we're going to
do this is with a dolly track.
So over in cinematics I'm going to go to senior machine.
I'm sorry.
Create Dolly.
Camera with track.
That will add into the scene a virtual camera and a dolly track.
Dolly track is like a roller coaster track if you will that our camera can move along.
I'm going to rename Sam the cam one to be Dolly one and then my dolly track one that's cool as it is
just changed the ordering in the hierarchy.
Okay.
Nice and good.
Now if we click on dolly track this is where we have a bunch of waypoints that we can be adding If I
click plus that will add our first waypoint into the scene.
And this is where I can have the start of my track and I started down here in front of the tough enemy.
Now if I click plus again we have a second waypoint and it move this one down probably over here.
Go Be careful I'm not going to get stuck on all these trees but I have to get close and personal with
the guy.
They're not going to create a another waypoint that will put it down the end which should allow me to
be loops that allow me to look back down my village to where the player is going to run up.
Now what do we need to do.
Well first of all let's click on dolly track 1 Have a look at what's going on here.
Make the width of my rail a little bit wider not because it changes gameplay just makes it easier for
me to see from a distance what's going on.
You can change the color over of it if you want it if you want to have a different color for your track.
I'm just going to leave it as the green that it was that is cool.
Now that's the track it's going to be that virtual camera that will be moving along the track.
There's a few ways to do this.
We've created three waypoints waypoint zero waypoint one waypoint 2.
Now if we in the body of my daily virtual camera if I was to select path units then we can move from
path zero which would be the first waypoint to path one which would be the next one to Path 2 which
will be the final one or any point in between.
So one point five would be from this middle waypoint to the end waypoint halfway in between that's path
units or by distance you can see if we click back on our daily track it has a distance or a path length
of twenty one.
So that allows us to say if we're moving our camera and click back on the camera now moving by distance
then it can be moved.
You can see maybe on my screen here the camera is moving along to simulate that.
It is moving actually click on the solar button.
So we'll see through this camera we can move by scrubbing along here it's going to move by distance.
The other thing we can do is set this by normalize which is what I'm going to use which says the start
of your rail is zero.
The end of your rail is one.
And it will be smoothly calculated the whole way through out from zero to one.
So if I was to put my camera at point five that is going to be right in the middle of my rail from start
to end.
The other thing I want to do in here is look at this enemy as we go zinging past.
So as we've done before click the look at select.
And I know the enemy's cold tough enemy.
Double click.
So as we go flying past we're gonna be looking at that tough enemy.
Let's just simulate how that's going to look but the proposal he's kind of looking at his feet a little
bit.
So what I might do is click on my dolly track find waypoint number one by clicking just here.
You can also click on these cameras to see exactly where they are it'll snap to where they are in the
scene and just kind of move it back a little bit maybe move it up a little bit so it's going to be up
and down on our rail which is absolutely what we can do.
Now let's animate that camera.
So as it is if we click on an intro sequence it's going to move this to the top here.
So we need to do first is grab our Dolly camera and put that down onto our senior machine track that
tells the Senate machine brain.
At this point of our sequence switch to this camera.
OK.
Boom.
That was switching to that camera.
We can have it transition as we've done before it's a bit of a long transition.
So what I might do is just have it as a cut.
Well we don't have any blend between the two so it's going to show that going to this one down the end
and to animate.
So it's not yet animated along the path to do that.
I'm going to grab my virtual camera dolly one drag it down to the left hand pain animation track and
you'll see there's an animation track with that camera in there.
I could have gone clicked on add an animation track.
That's another way to do that.
Now within here what is it that we want to animate.
Well we're animating our camera.
We're animating it along our path positions.
So from zero to one just put that back to zero from zero to one is what we want to be animating.
So clicking on our intro sequence I'm going to go to the end of where I want this animation to take
place click record and then find our Dolly camera changed the path position to one which will be the
end of its journey scroll my slider to the start of the journey change the path position to zero hit
Enter unclear record and then now as we hit play room we slide around that character.
So let's have a look from start to finish.
We start off with our follow camera probably a little bit too long I'm just gonna trim that up a little
bit as we go.
So it's going on there.
Move to this first guy.
More of a lengthy reveal can highlight a couple of things and then move them all along a phone and drag
them all out highlight the next two.
Move them along.
Just to make everything a little bit longer and have this overlap.
Maybe that delay down a bit further just tidying things up a little bit.
OK so now I'm going to hit spacebar as we scroll through.
He's gonna be walking around swing over this guy he's gonna be walking around and then swing to the
last guy.
Okay.
You can see I've broken my animation here which is cool let's go through how to troubleshoot that.
I've moved these guys but I didn't move the animation.
How do we do that clicking on it doesn't seem to work.
So what I need to do is double click on that and that will take me into the animation window.
Now I've got a really interesting issue here where the scale looks like it's in seconds on within my
animation but on timeline it looks like it's within frames.
So I want to get consistency there I'm going to right click on the cog while in my timeline and change
these two seconds.
Now should be in seconds and I can scroll all the way up to where my daily camera should be doing daily
camera stuff that is holding my left mouse button 623 up until 7 43 so so over on my animation described
a little bit.
Grab the two key frames move them both up to starting at what is at six twenty three six twenty three
six 24 ish.
Yeah okay.
So now my animation is working because we're able to move that I just need to make my camera a little
bit longer here.
Hold on that guy.
So from start to finish one more time make sure everything's working that guy that guy swing around
there and then our animation adds looking pretty good and then snaps back to the player because we don't
really want it to fly through the entire world from there back to our player.
Okay so that is my somewhat rough and ready cinematic sequence created my challenge for you is to make
your own cinematic sequence I'm sure you've been doing this as you've been going along with me but I
want you to stamp your own mark on it create a playable director which you've probably done at at least
two virtual cameras.
You can add as many as you want and use at least one dolly track if you will June till you're happy
with it.
And then if you're able to please share with us create a video of your cinematic moment and share with
us so we can see what corners you've come up with.
Champion take that on now when you're done.
I will see you in the next video.